dcmgpdir(1)                       OFFIS DCMTK                      dcmgpdir(1)



NAME
       dcmgpdir - Create a general purpose DICOMDIR


SYNOPSIS
       dcmgpdir [options] [dcmfile-in...]

DESCRIPTION
       The  dcmgpdir  utility  creates  a  DICOMDIR  file  from  the specified
       referenced DICOM files according to the DICOM  Part  11  Media  Storage
       Application Profiles.

       Currently, the following profiles are supported:

       · General Purpose CD-R Interchange (STD-GEN-CD)
       · General Purpose Interchange on DVD-RAM Media (STD-GEN-DVD-RAM)
       dcmmkdir  is an extended version of this tool which also supports other
       Media Storage Application Profiles than the general purpose  one  (e.g.
       the cardio profiles require the use of icon images).
PARAMETERS
       dcmfile-in  referenced DICOM file (or directory to be scanned)
OPTIONS
   general options
         -h    --help
                 print this help text and exit

               --version
                 print version information and exit

               --arguments
                 print expanded command line arguments

         -q    --quiet
                 quiet mode, print no warnings and errors

         -v    --verbose
                 verbose mode, print processing details

         -d    --debug
                 debug mode, print debug information

         -ll   --log-level  [l]evel: string constant
                 (fatal, error, warn, info, debug, trace)
                 use level l for the logger

         -lc   --log-config  [f]ilename: string
                 use config file f for the logger
   input options
       DICOMDIR identifiers:

         +F    --fileset-id  [i]d: string
                 use specific file-set ID
                 (default: DCMTK_MEDIA_DEMO, "" for none)

         +R    --descriptor  [f]ilename: string
                 add a file-set descriptor file ID
                 (e.g. README, default: no descriptor)

         +C    --char-set  [c]harset: string
                 add a specific character set for descriptor
                 (default: "ISO_IR 100" if descriptor present)

       reading:

         +id   --input-directory  [d]irectory: string
                 read referenced DICOM files from directory d
                 (default for --recurse: current directory)

         -m    --keep-filenames
                 expect filenames to be in DICOM format (default)

         +m    --map-filenames
                 map to DICOM filenames (lowercase->uppercase,
                 and remove trailing period)

         -r    --no-recurse
                 do not recurse within directories (default)

         +r    --recurse
                 recurse within filesystem directories

         +p    --pattern  [p]attern: string (only with --recurse)
                 pattern for filename matching (wildcards)

                 # possibly not available on all systems
   processing options
       consistency check:

         -W    --no-consistency-check
                 do not check files for consistency

         +W    --warn-inconsist-files
                 warn about inconsistent files (default)

         -a    --abort-inconsist-file
                 abort on first inconsistent file

       type 1 attributes:

         -I    --strict
                 exit with error if DICOMDIR type 1 attributes
                 are missing in DICOM file (default)

         +I    --invent
                 invent DICOMDIR type 1 attributes if missing in DICOM file

         +Ipi  --invent-patient-id
                 invent new PatientID in case of inconsistent
                 PatientName attributes

       other checks:

         +Nrs  --allow-retired-sop
                 allow retired SOP classes defined in previous editions
                 of the DICOM standard

         -Nxc  --no-xfer-check
                 do not reject images with non-standard transfer syntax
                 (just warn)
   output options
       DICOMDIR file:

         +D    --output-file  [f]ilename: string
                 generate specific DICOMDIR file
                 (default: DICOMDIR in current directory)

       writing:

         -A    --replace
                 replace existing DICOMDIR (default)

         +A    --append
                 append to existing DICOMDIR

         +U    --update
                 update existing DICOMDIR

         -w    --discard
                 do not write out DICOMDIR

       backup:

               --create-backup
                 create a backup of existing DICOMDIR (default)

         -nb   --no-backup
                 do not create a backup of existing DICOMDIR

       post-1993 value representations:

         +u    --enable-new-vr
                 enable support for new VRs (UN/UT) (default)

         -u    --disable-new-vr
                 disable support for new VRs, convert to OB

       group length encoding:

         -g    --group-length-remove
                 write without group length elements (default)

         +g    --group-length-create
                 write with group length elements

       length encoding in sequences and items:

         +e    --length-explicit
                 write with explicit lengths (default)

         -e    --length-undefined
                 write with undefined lengths
NOTES
       All  files  specified on the command line (or discovered by recursively
       examining the contents of directories with the  +r  option)  are  first
       evaluated  for  their compatibility with the General Purpose CD-R Image
       Interchange Profile (Supplement 19).  Only  appropriate  files  encoded
       using  the  Explicit VR Little Endian Uncompressed Transfer Syntax will
       be accepted. Files having invalid filenames will be rejected (the rules
       can  be  relaxed  via the +m option). Files missing required attributes
       will be rejected (the +I option can relax this behavior).
       A DICOMDIR file will only be  constructed  if  all  files  have  passed
       initial tests.
       The  dcmgpdir  utility  also allows one to append new entries to and to
       update existing entries in a DICOMDIR file. Using option +A new entries
       are  only appended to the DICOMDIR, i.e. existing records like the ones
       for PATIENT information are not updated. Using option +U also  existing
       records   are  updated  according  to  the  information  found  in  the
       referenced DICOM files. Please note that this update process  might  be
       slower  than  just  appending  new entries. However, it makes sure that
       additional information that is required for  the  selected  application
       profile is also added to existing records.
   Scanning Directories
       Adding files from directories is possible by using option --recurse. If
       no further command line parameters are given, the  directory  specified
       by option --input-directory (default: current directory) is scanned for
       files. If parameters are given, they  can  either  specify  a  file  or
       directory  name;  the input directory is always prepended. If the files
       in the provided directories should be selected according to a  specific
       name pattern (e.g. using wildcard matching), option --pattern has to be
       used. Please note that this file pattern  only  applies  to  the  files
       within  the  scanned  directories,  and,  if  any  other  patterns  are
       specified on the command  line  outside  the  --input-directory  option
       (e.g.  in  order  to  select  further files), these do not apply to the
       specified directories.
LOGGING
       The level of logging output of  the  various  command  line  tools  and
       underlying  libraries  can  be  specified by the user. By default, only
       errors and warnings are written to the  standard  error  stream.  Using
       option  --verbose  also  informational messages like processing details
       are reported. Option --debug can be used to get  more  details  on  the
       internal  activity,  e.g.  for debugging purposes. Other logging levels
       can be selected using option --log-level. In --quiet  mode  only  fatal
       errors  are reported. In such very severe error events, the application
       will usually terminate. For  more  details  on  the  different  logging
       levels, see documentation of module 'oflog'.
       In  case  the logging output should be written to file (optionally with
       logfile rotation), to syslog (Unix) or the event log  (Windows)  option
       --log-config  can  be  used.  This  configuration  file also allows for
       directing only certain messages to a particular output stream  and  for
       filtering  certain  messages  based  on the module or application where
       they are generated.  An  example  configuration  file  is  provided  in
       <etcdir>/logger.cfg.
COMMAND LINE
       All  command  line  tools  use  the  following notation for parameters:
       square brackets enclose optional  values  (0-1),  three  trailing  dots
       indicate  that multiple values are allowed (1-n), a combination of both
       means 0 to n values.
       Command line options are distinguished from parameters by a leading '+'
       or  '-' sign, respectively. Usually, order and position of command line
       options are arbitrary (i.e. they  can  appear  anywhere).  However,  if
       options  are  mutually exclusive the rightmost appearance is used. This
       behavior conforms to the  standard  evaluation  rules  of  common  Unix
       shells.
       In  addition,  one  or more command files can be specified using an '@'
       sign as a prefix to the filename (e.g. @command.txt).  Such  a  command
       argument  is  replaced  by  the  content of the corresponding text file
       (multiple whitespaces are treated as a  single  separator  unless  they
       appear  between  two  quotation marks) prior to any further evaluation.
       Please note that a command file cannot contain  another  command  file.
       This  simple  but  effective  approach  allows  one to summarize common
       combinations of options/parameters and  avoids  longish  and  confusing
       command lines (an example is provided in file <datadir>/dumppat.txt).
ENVIRONMENT
       The  dcmgpdir  utility  will  attempt  to  load DICOM data dictionaries
       specified in the DCMDICTPATH environment variable. By default, i.e.  if
       the   DCMDICTPATH   environment   variable   is   not   set,  the  file
       <datadir>/dicom.dic will be loaded unless the dictionary is built  into
       the application (default for Windows).
       The   default   behavior   should  be  preferred  and  the  DCMDICTPATH
       environment variable only used when alternative data  dictionaries  are
       required.  The  DCMDICTPATH environment variable has the same format as
       the Unix shell PATH variable in that a colon (':')  separates  entries.
       On  Windows systems, a semicolon (';') is used as a separator. The data
       dictionary code will  attempt  to  load  each  file  specified  in  the
       DCMDICTPATH  environment variable. It is an error if no data dictionary
       can be loaded.
SEE ALSO
       dcmmkdir(1)
COPYRIGHT
       Copyright (C) 1996-2016 by OFFIS e.V., Escherweg  2,  26121  Oldenburg,
       Germany.



Version 3.6.5                   Mon Oct 28 2019                    dcmgpdir(1)
