dcmsign(1)                        OFFIS DCMTK                       dcmsign(1)



NAME
       dcmsign - Sign and Verify DICOM Files


SYNOPSIS
       dcmsign [options] dcmfile-in [dcmfile-out]

DESCRIPTION
       The dcmsign utility reads a DICOM file (dcmfile-in), performs a digital
       signature operation and, if any modification has  taken  place,  writes
       the DICOM object to an output file (dcmfile-out).

       Five digital signature operations are supported:

        verification of all signatures in the DICOM file
        creation of a new digital signature located in the main dataset,
        creation of a new digital signature in an item of a sequence embedded
         within the dataset,
        removal of a single digital signature from the DICOM file, and
        removal of all digital signatures from the DICOM file.
PARAMETERS
       dcmfile-in   DICOM input filename to be processed

       dcmfile-out  DICOM output filename
OPTIONS
   general options
         -h    --help
                 print this help text and exit

               --version
                 print version information and exit

               --arguments
                 print expanded command line arguments

         -q    --quiet
                 quiet mode, print no warnings and errors

         -v    --verbose
                 verbose mode, print processing details

         -d    --debug
                 debug mode, print debug information

         -ll   --log-level  [l]evel: string constant
                 (fatal, error, warn, info, debug, trace)
                 use level l for the logger

         -lc   --log-config  [f]ilename: string
                 use config file f for the logger
   input options
       input file format:

         +f    --read-file
                 read file format or data set (default)

         +fo   --read-file-only
                 read file format only

         -f    --read-dataset
                 read data set without file meta information

       input transfer syntax:

         -t=   --read-xfer-auto
                 use TS recognition (default)

         -td   --read-xfer-detect
                 ignore TS specified in the file meta header

         -te   --read-xfer-little
                 read with explicit VR little endian TS

         -tb   --read-xfer-big
                 read with explicit VR big endian TS

         -ti   --read-xfer-implicit
                 read with implicit VR little endian TS
   signature commands
               --verify
                 verify all signatures (default)

         +s    --sign  [p]rivate key file, [c]ertificate file: string
                 create signature in main object

         +si   --sign-item  [k]eyfile, [c]ertfile, [i]tem location: string
                 create signature in sequence item

         +r    --remove  [s]ignature UID: string
                 remove signature

         +ra   --remove-all
                 remove all signatures from data set
   signature creation options (only with &ndash;sign or &ndash;sign-item):
       private key password:

         +ps   --std-passwd
                 prompt user to type password on stdin (default)

         +pw   --use-passwd  [p]assword: string
                 use specified password

         -pw   --null-passwd
                 use empty string as password

       key and certificate file format:

         -pem  --pem-keys
                 read keys/certificates as PEM file (default)

         -der  --der-keys
                 read keys/certificates as DER file

       digital signature profile:

         -pf   --profile-none
                 don't enforce any signature profile (default)

         +pb   --profile-base
                 enforce base RSA signature profile

         +pc   --profile-creator
                 enforce creator RSA signature profile

         +pa   --profile-auth
                 enforce authorization signature profile

       MAC algorithm:

         +mr   --mac-ripemd160
                 use RIPEMD 160 (default)

         +ms   --mac-sha1
                 use SHA-1

         +mm   --mac-md5
                 use MD 5

       tag selection:

         -t    --tag
                 [t]ag: "gggg,eeee" or dictionary name
                 sign only specified tag
                 (this option can be specified multiple times)

         -tf   --tag-file  [f]ilename: string
                 read list of tags from text file

       signature format:

         -fn   --format-new
                 use correct DICOM signature format (default)

         -fo   --format-old
                 use old (pre-3.5.4) DCMTK signature format, non-conformant
                 if signature includes compressed pixel data
   output options
       output transfer syntax:

         +t=   --write-xfer-same
                 write with same TS as input (default)

         +te   --write-xfer-little
                 write with explicit VR little endian TS

         +tb   --write-xfer-big
                 write with explicit VR big endian TS

         +ti   --write-xfer-implicit
                 write with implicit VR little endian TS

       length encoding in sequences and items:

         +e    --length-explicit
                 write with explicit lengths (default)

         -e    --length-undefined
                 write with undefined lengths

       other output options:

         +d    --dump  [f]ilename: string
                 dump byte stream fed into the MAC codec to file
                 (only with --sign or --sign-item)
NOTES
   Files and Parameters
       The dcmsign utility reads and writes a number of files and file formats
       which are described in this section.
       Public Key Certificates are expected in X.509v3 format, either with PEM
       or DER encoding. The dcmsign utility currently  supports  RSA  and  DSA
       public  keys,  although  only  RSA  keys  are  defines  in the Security
       Profiles of the DICOM standard.
       Private Keys are expected in PEM or DER encoding.  PEM  is  recommended
       (and default) because this allows one to keep private keys in encrypted
       form. Command line options control the  behavior  of  dcmsign  when  an
       encrypted  PEM  key  is  opened  (see  above).  In  general  it  is not
       recommended to specify the encryption  password  in  the  command  line
       because  the  command  line  may  be  visible to other processes in the
       system, e.g. 'ps -ef'.
       The list of data elements to sign can either be read  from  a  file  or
       specified  on  the  command  line  or  both  (in this case the keys are
       combined).
       On the command line, attribute keys are specified as
       --tag "gggg,eeee"  where gggg and eeee are the hexadecimal group
                          and element numbers
       --tag "Name"       where 'Name' is a symbolic attribute name from
                          the DICOM dictionary (see below).
       When attribute tags are read from file with the  --tag-file  option,  a
       plain  text file of max. 64 kbyte is expected. Tags within the file are
       either symbolic names from the  data  dictionary  or  have  the  format
       (gggg,eeee) (with braces). Tags are separated by one or more whitespace
       characters.
       The --sign-item operation requires a location string that describes  in
       which  sequence  item a signature is to be created. The location string
       has the following format:
       SequenceName[index].SequenceName[index].SequenceName[index](...)
       where SequenceName is either a symbolic attribute name  from  the  data
       dictionary  or  a numeric tag in the format (gggg,eeee) and index is an
       unsigned decimal integer for the item number, starting  with  zero  for
       the  first  item  in  a sequence. As an example, the following location
       string
       ReferencedSeriesSequence[0].ReferencedImageSequence[1]
       would cause a digital signature to be created in the second item of the
       ReferencedImageSequence  (0008,1140) which is located in the first item
       of the ReferencedSeriesSequence (0008,1115) which  is  located  in  the
       main DICOM dataset.
LOGGING
       The  level  of  logging  output  of  the various command line tools and
       underlying libraries can be specified by the  user.  By  default,  only
       errors  and  warnings  are  written to the standard error stream. Using
       option --verbose also informational messages  like  processing  details
       are  reported.  Option  --debug  can be used to get more details on the
       internal activity, e.g. for debugging purposes.  Other  logging  levels
       can  be  selected  using option --log-level. In --quiet mode only fatal
       errors are reported. In such very severe error events, the  application
       will  usually  terminate.  For  more  details  on the different logging
       levels, see documentation of module 'oflog'.
       In case the logging output should be written to file  (optionally  with
       logfile  rotation),  to syslog (Unix) or the event log (Windows) option
       --log-config can be used.  This  configuration  file  also  allows  for
       directing  only  certain messages to a particular output stream and for
       filtering certain messages based on the  module  or  application  where
       they  are  generated.  An  example  configuration  file  is provided in
       <etcdir>/logger.cfg.
COMMAND LINE
       All command line tools  use  the  following  notation  for  parameters:
       square  brackets  enclose  optional  values  (0-1), three trailing dots
       indicate that multiple values are allowed (1-n), a combination of  both
       means 0 to n values.
       Command line options are distinguished from parameters by a leading '+'
       or '-' sign, respectively. Usually, order and position of command  line
       options  are  arbitrary  (i.e.  they  can appear anywhere). However, if
       options are mutually exclusive the rightmost appearance is  used.  This
       behavior  conforms  to  the  standard  evaluation  rules of common Unix
       shells.
       In addition, one or more command files can be specified  using  an  '@'
       sign  as  a  prefix to the filename (e.g. @command.txt). Such a command
       argument is replaced by the content  of  the  corresponding  text  file
       (multiple  whitespaces  are  treated  as a single separator unless they
       appear between two quotation marks) prior to  any  further  evaluation.
       Please  note  that  a command file cannot contain another command file.
       This simple but effective  approach  allows  one  to  summarize  common
       combinations  of  options/parameters  and  avoids longish and confusing
       command lines (an example is provided in file <datadir>/dumppat.txt).
ENVIRONMENT
       The dcmsign utility  will  attempt  to  load  DICOM  data  dictionaries
       specified  in the DCMDICTPATH environment variable. By default, i.e. if
       the  DCMDICTPATH  environment   variable   is   not   set,   the   file
       <datadir>/dicom.dic  will be loaded unless the dictionary is built into
       the application (default for Windows).
       The  default  behavior  should  be  preferred   and   the   DCMDICTPATH
       environment  variable  only used when alternative data dictionaries are
       required. The DCMDICTPATH environment variable has the same  format  as
       the  Unix  shell PATH variable in that a colon (':') separates entries.
       On Windows systems, a semicolon (';') is used as a separator. The  data
       dictionary  code  will  attempt  to  load  each  file  specified in the
       DCMDICTPATH environment variable. It is an error if no data  dictionary
       can be loaded.
COPYRIGHT
       Copyright  (C)  2000-2014  by OFFIS e.V., Escherweg 2, 26121 Oldenburg,
       Germany.



Version 3.6.5                   Mon Oct 28 2019                     dcmsign(1)
